# saajidchowdhury.github.io

My name is Saajid. I like physics, math, logic, computer algorithms, improvising music on the cello, solving puzzles, and making things perfect. I am a second year undergraduate student and member of the Honors College at Stony Brook University, majoring in physics and pure mathematics, and may declare a minor in applied mathematics. I competed as a team member of the SBU-NON-CS-MAJORS in the 2021 ICPC Greater NY Regional algorithmic programming contest, where we placed in the top half of teams consisting of mostly CS majors ([more info](https://www3.cs.stonybrook.edu/~compprog/20210413.html)). I made a [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-i67cFjaJRg) in which I derived Gauss's Law from Coulomb's Law and then proved that Gauss's Law works in general. I do particle detector simulation research with [Stony Brook's EIC group](https://www.stonybrook.edu/cfns/). 
<script type="text/javascript"
        src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.0/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS_CHTML"></script>
\\[ x = {-b \pm \sqrt{b^2-4ac} \over 2a} \\]

Some other things I do for fun are taking apart machines and figuring out how they work, reading about how machines work, playing Monopoly and Scrabble (I'm looking to optimize strategy in board games and ought to try others), doing math puzzles regarding graph theory and group theory (currently my favorite math topics), deriving physics equations whenever they feel like a much-too-often-used magic tricks and warrant explanation, training my sister to solve math competition problems, programming a random simulation or game once in a while (C++ is my main language), playing puzzle-based videogames (I've played Portal 1/2, Cogs, Braid, Antichamber, Samerost 1/2/3, Machinarium, Rush (hardly finished it), Unblock Me, The Room, Angry Birds, Monument Valley, Limbo, and The Witness (my favorite so far). I intend to try out Baba is You and Stephen's Sausage Roll next.), typing really fast on typeracer, watching sci-fi movies, and last but not least, sleeping!

I think problem-solving is a fundamental skill that schools don't teach effectively (at least not directly), and can be improved by regularly practicing programming and math competition problems, understanding mistakes and figuring out how to not make those mistakes again, looking up techniques on the fly for the particular problem at hand, and gradually increasing the difficulty of the problemset. I use [codeforces](https://codeforces.com/problemset?order=BY_SOLVED_DESC) to practice algorithmic programming problems and [artofproblemsolving](https://artofproblemsolving.com/wiki/index.php/AMC_12_Problems_and_Solutions) to practice math puzzles. I also try to actively explore puzzles, patterns, or gaps in any topic that particularly interests me, if I have time. 

I think problem solving is so important that I want my main contributions to science to ultimately be things that help scientists solve their problems more efficiently. Things like neural networks, parallel algorithms, programs that can create their own math and physics, quantum computing algorithms, high temperature superconductors, and equipment that can extract and process data as efficiently as possible. I also would like to contribute to the body of physics theory, by formalizing parts that lack complete explanations, as well as exploring any new ideas not previously explored. I feel like I should be getting busy with these things now, and yet I also feel like I'm a far way away from being able to even understand them and that I have shorter-term goals that need to be given more priority.
